h1. Adaptive Images

Is a solution to automatically create, cache, and deliver device-appropriate versions of your website's content images. It does not require you to change your mark-up. It is intended for use with "Responsive Designs":http://www.abookapart.com/products/responsive-web-design and to be combined with "Fluid Image":http://unstoppablerobotninja.com/entry/fluid-images/ techniques.

h2. Fork notes

This fork optimises PNG images after scaling them down. It requires optipng, advpng and pngquant to be available as command line scripts. The latest compiled versions are preferable, as they will result in better optimisation. By default PNGs are optimised to have 256 colours. To change this, add the number of colours before the extension. For example, some-image.16.png will have 16 colours. Make sure the originals are also optimised, as the originals are used if scaling is not required.

h2. Benefits

* Ensures you and your visitors are not wasting bandwidth delivering images at a higher resolution than the vistor needs.
* Will work on your existing site, as it requires no changes to your mark-up.
* Is device agnostic (it works by detecting the size of the visitors screen)
* Is CMS agnostic (it manages its own image re-sizing, and will work on any CMS or even on flat HTML pages)
* Is entirely automatic. Once added to your site, you need do no further work.
* Highly configurable
** Set the resolutions you want to become adaptive (usually the same as the ones in your CSS @media queries)
** Choose where you want the cached files to be stored
** Configure directories to ignore (protect certain directories so AI is not applied to images within them)

Find out more, and view examples at "http://adaptive-images.com":http://adaptive-images.com

h2. Legal

Adaptive Images by Matt Wilcox is licensed under a "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported License":http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/